# Overview
This is a proof of concept lab to explore attestation options for Hyperledger
Avalon. For background on attestation see [References](#references).

The lab provides an end to end example of the code, components, and
configuration for generating and verifying remote attestations.  The code can be
used to learn the call flow for ECDSA based attestation. It also provides
dockerfiles that illustrate build and runtime dependencies.
To a lesser degree, the project can also be used as a "known good" example when
experimenting in new environments or different configuraitons.

The code is written first and foremost to make the attestation API readable and
simple. It is not written to be fully secure or robust. You can treat this as a
simplified example before looking at official SGX examples.

The main attestation logic is in App/App.cpp. It loads a minimal enclave and
uses the SGX SDK methods for creating an ECDSA based attestation of that
enclave.

The complement to the enclave application is the relying party's verifier in
RelyingParty/Verifier.cpp. This program will read in a binary quote generated by
the application and verify it using SGX DCAP libraries. Those libraries rely on
a service deployed in the cloud environment or within your local enviroment.

Quote generation (creating an attestation) has been verified on Azure ACC nodes
only. Quote verification has been verified with Intel open source reference
components only.

The project also includes a Docker-based dev environment to facilitate building 
and some debugging. The app also works within that environment if the app is
built in simulation mode. Verification will correctly return errors when given
simulation quotes (because you should not trust simulated quotes). 
The container is meant for development not for deployment.
It may be possible to modify the container for deployment by
mapping in /dev/sgx and the quote provider library (libdcap_quoteprov.so)
but this has not been tested.

Similarly the verifier may be run in a container or other environment
supplying the required services and libraries to test the portability of the 
quote generated by the attestor application.

## TODO
* Add report data to app and verifier.
* Add verifier using Quote Verification *Enclave* and/or discuss deployment
  models where Quote Verification *Library* alone makes sense (this is probably
  the most applicable model for Avalon).
* Print DCAP Codes nicely


# Build

## Docker

From project root
1. build the container

    `./build-docker`

1. run the container - this drops you into a shell

    `./run-docker`

1. build in simulation mode [default in the container] or hardware mode

    `make clean && make`

    or

    `make clean && SGX_MODE=HW make`
    
    This will produce an enclave application, `attestor`, built for simulation or
    hardware and a verifier which does not rely on hardware but does rely on
    DCAP services.

## Ubuntu 18.04
1. Install machine per instructions in [Cloud Provisioning](#cloud-provisioning)

1. build in hardware mode (default) or simulation mode

    `make clean && make`

    or

    `make clean && SGX_MODE=SIM make`


# Running
(Note: when run within the dev container only simulation mode binary of the
attestor app will work.
However if you build in HW mode the binary will work on Ubuntu natively.)
    
1. Create an attestation (also called generating a quote)

    `./attestor`

    This outputs a binary file `attestation.bytes`.

1. Verify the attestation

    * Native execution

        `./verifier`

        This consumes the attestation file and indicates whether it is
        acceptable. (Note you can also copy attestation.bytes to another host
        and run verify from the verification container which demonstrates
        remotely verifying the enclave using the intel reference implementation
        verification stack.)

    * Container
        1. Build verifier container

            `./build-docker-verifier`

        1. Run verifier container

            `./run-docker-verifier`

        1. If necessary copy attestation.bytes to the verifier\'s host

            I.e. if you are running the verifier on a different host than the attestor. The verifier
            will look for the attestation in the same directory as the verifier binary. The project
            root (e.g.  /home/you/dancap) is mapped into the verifier container at /project/dancap.

        1. Run the verifier from the container\'s shell
        
            `./verifier`

    Expect output to look like this:

    ```
    $ ./verifier
    Reading 4584 bytes... Read attestation file successfully.
    Success: Quote verification PASSED

    Verification result code: 0
    ```

    (The Verification result code may differ based on the platform patch level)

    If instead you get an error 19 (when running in the container):
    
    ```
    root@4f91bb8bbfd5:/project/dancap# ./verifier
    Reading 4580 bytes... Read attestation file successfully.
    ERROR: Quote verification FAILED with error: e019
    Verification error code: e006
    ```

    Please check your proxy settings and then make sure that the PCCS service is running:

    `pm2 status`

    If you don't see PCCS listed then you can start it as follows:

    ```
    cd /opt/intel/sgx-dcap-pccs/
    pm2 start pccs_server.config.js
    ```

    If you created the attestation using simulation expect an e01d
    (SGX_QL_QUOTE_FORMAT_UNSUPPORTED). This is expected because the attestation is just simulated
    and should not verify as an actual hardware attestation.

    ```
    root@aacd7eebf44a:/project/dancap# ./verifier
    Reading 1116 bytes... Read attestation file successfully.
    ERROR: Quote verification FAILED with error: e01d
    Verification error code: a006
    ```


# Cloud Provisioning
## Azure Confidential Compute
1. Provision an ACC node with
    * Ubuntu 18.04
    * Open Enclave SDK 
    ** This is necessary to get the attestation dependencies installed correctly within Azure.
    See:
    https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/guide/get-started-with-azure-confidential-computing.html
    for more details.

1. Upgrade the machine
    `apt-get update && apt-get upgrade`

1. Install the Intel(r) SGX SDK

```
    sudo wget \
        https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx-linux/2.9/distro/ubuntu18.04-server/sgx_linux_x64_sdk_2.9.100.2.bin \
        && sudo chmod +x sgx_linux_x64_sdk_2.9.100.2.bin \
        && echo "yes" | sudo ./sgx_linux_x64_sdk_2.9.100.2.bin \
        && sudo rm sgx_linux_x64_sdk_2.9.100.2.bin \
        && sudo ln -s /opt/intel/sgxsdk/lib64/libsgx_quote_ex_sim.so /opt/intel/sgxsdk/sdk_libs/ \
        && sudo sh -c 'echo ". /opt/intel/sgxsdk/environment" >> /etc/environment' 
```

1. Install the runtime quote (attestation) libraries

```
    sudo apt-get install libsgx-quote-ex
```

1. Set library search order to pick up Azure's quote provider library rather
    than the one available in the SGX common path. You can do this the right
    way by managing /etc/ld.so.conf Or you can do it the expedient way by
    removing the one we don't want.

    We want this one:
    `$ /usr/lib/libdcap_quoteprov.so`

    we do NOT want this one:
    ~~$ /opt/intel/libsgx-enclave-common/aesm/libdcap_quoteprov.so~~

1. Finally add to your environment (e.g. /etc/environment or ~/.bash_profile)

    `AZDCAP_COLLATERAL_VERSION=v2`


# Misc
The project has a helper function to print SGX error codes and messages.
This helper function can be regenerated if the SGX SDK changes using the
python script in App/:

`App/generate_handle_sgx_error.py > App/handle_sgx_error.h`

DCAP codes output by the verifier can be looked up here:
https://github.com/intel/SGXDataCenterAttestationPrimitives/blob/master/QuoteGeneration/quote_wrapper/common/inc/sgx_ql_lib_common.h

and here:

https://github.com/intel/SGXDataCenterAttestationPrimitives/blob/master/QuoteVerification/QvE/Include/sgx_qve_header.h

# References
* https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/dcap-1.1/linux/docs/Intel_SGX_DCAP_ECDSA_Orientation.pdf
* https://software.intel.com/en-us/blogs/2018/12/09/an-update-on-3rd-party-attestation
* https://01.org/intel-softwareguard-extensions/downloads/intel-sgx-dcap-1.6-release
* https://software.intel.com/sites/default/files/managed/f1/b8/intel-sgx-support-for-third-party-attestation.pdf
* https://github.com/intel/SGXDataCenterAttestationPrimitives

